1. how to query linux os logs in aws: 
    create a ec2 instance role allowing cloudwatch access and add the role to that instance.
    install cloudwatch agent and configure the source path and destination log group.
    if need sns alerts create a metric filter with the name you want and  target a sns topic to send alerts.

2. how to increase / decrease ebs volume: 
    you can increase the instance volume while running. modify the ebs volume size and mount or sync the added ebs volume inside linux terminal.
    decrease the ebs volume: create a snapshot and create a volume with the snapshot and attach this volume to ec2 isntance.

3. provisioned iops allows multi attach but only with nitro instances.

4. userdata runs only during initialization, how to make it run everytime it runs?
    cloud_final_modules: - [scripts-user, always] use cloud init directives with shell scripts and enable scripts-user to always. and also inside user there will be path for user-data you can also delete that.

5. if ec2 instance failed - check with higher family type isntance, see the monitor logs, check the volume

6. types of ec2 instance checks:
    system status checks: check on aws systems 
    instance status checks: check on our configuration and networks (network configuratio, ebs volume attached, linux boot scripts)

7. how to create public facing alb with private instance:
    create ec2 instance in private subnet, and create alb in public security group
    allow alb access to private instance security group.

8. create iso to ami: use vm export/import tool which uses s3 bucket to create ami.

9. how to see largest object size in s3: use aws cli with sort_by command

10. s3 file size 5tb, single put is 5gb

11. blue green deployment

12. transitgateway: connect between multiple vpc's and on prem through vpc connection.
    works as hub and spike model. 
    share TG to many diff accounts use RAM. 
    Multicast: 

13. Can you modify ipv4 cidr in aws: no it is not possible, but you can add additional cidr block as ip4 address.

14. can i move ec2 instance to another vpc: not possible you need to create a new image and move.

15. subnet limitation: first 4ip and last ip will be reserved. 0,1,2,3,255

16. Transitegatway attachment types: vpc (diff vpc same region), peering (diff vpc in diff region), vpn (vpc to onprem)

17. IPsec VPN connection: enable vpc connectivity between diff vpc and diff onprem by including transit gateway.

18. you can add 5 sg per ec2 instance per eni.

19. you can have one cidr value fixed, and add secondary 4 secondary cidr.

20. 200 subnets per region,200 routetables

21. 5 elastic ip & 2 elastic natgateway

22. 50 vpc peering connection

23. deploy application in ec2 instance from github: create a codedeploy deployment group with the selected instance.
    create a codepipeline with deployment as codedeployment and ec2. Update the buildspec.yaml file for the applications and configurations you need.
    also i think we need to install codedeployagent to do this.

24. ACK aws controllers for kubernetes: multiple controllers are there to integrate various services in aws.
    you can dynamically retrieve information from the service.

25. Cloudfront origin: location where your content is originally stores.

26. CF distribution: Location from where your content will be delivered as a caching mechanism.

27. d
