ASG: Maintains required number of instances all time.

ASG + LB: 
    provides required number of instances with loadbalancing option
    which means asg will scale based on cpu utilization, lb will spread traffic evenly and if a instance is removed from asg
    loadbalancer know and will not route traffic to that instance.

ASG scaling options:
    static: manual scaling
    Dynamic: Dynamic scaling - Target tracking scaling (avg cpu utilization, networkin, networkout),
                             -  step scaling (add 1 instance if cpuutilization is 50%, add 2 if cpu is 60%, and increase step by step)
you can add multiple policies to one asg.
you can add remove instance from inservice state to standby state to troubleshoot and include in the asg.
Add termination policy to set the termination.

ASG uses launch template to spin up your instance.
Launch template vs launch configuration: LT and LC both has instance configuration information.
LT - newer and you can modify the exsisting configurations and have mulitple version
LC - is older version and it does not support modification and versioning

spot instance:
you need the bid the price and till that bid price you can use, and it will be terminated with short notice when bid goes up.
90% savings.

Application loadbalancer:
    works at layer7 (http, https)
    supports hostbased, pathbased routing
    forward redirecting from https to https with ssl certificate support
    it can target other aws services such as lambda
    supports eks managed and fargate.

Network loadbalancer:
    works at tcp, udp layer.
    Need elasticip to work efficiently.
    support less latency and port based routing.
    no support for eks fargate.

Target: set of instance, which can be target by loadbalancer based on rules mentioned.

SSL / TLS termination: encryption and decryption process for connection with acm.
when you make connectoin from browser, encrypted request is send to loadbalancer with the acm cert.

cache and cookies diff: 
    Cache stores the website content only on a user browser for media purposes. 
    Cookies store their content on both- a server as well as a browser for limited time authentication.

Block countries accessing your alb by using waf. create a waf rule by selecting your alb and allow or deny the country.
also you can redirect them to the another dns name.

origin: location which has the source storage of the content.
distribution: edge location where the contents will be cached
