AWS RDS:

1. DB engines in AWS RDS:
    Mysql (aurora, mysql, mariadb, postgresql,) ms sql, oracle

2. diff between structured and unstructed database:
    structured: Tabular column and rows format, mostly used for integers & strings
    unstructed: Not-character type, mostly used for images, docs, and others.

3.  How many database can be stored in RDS :   
    N number of database in mysql
    mysql can have 100 db, and oracle can have 1 db.

4. types of backup in database:
    automated snapshots (deleted when deleting the database instance after 24 hours), manual snapshots (retained for ever)

5. Retaintation period: default 7 days, maximum 35 days.

6. How automated backup works: 
    Takes backup based on time 

7: How point in time backup works:

8: How many snapshots can be preseved: 100 snapshots

9: Parameter group:

10: Where snapshot will be saved: backend aws s3 bucket not visible to us

11: will db available during backup widow and maintenance window:
    io will be disabled so will not work.

12: When i prefer provisioned iops over standard standard storage:
    If high patch will be there then choose provisioned iops.

13: Is it possible to stop rds database:
    yes it is possible but not more than 7 days. It will start automatically.

14: Multi available RDS: Primary and secondary (synchronous replication)

15: Read replica vs multi az:


16: Maximum readreplica: aurora 15, other 5 RR

17: Aurora and additional features:

18: How to migrate live DB to RDS:
    DMS

19: Can I use standby database for read and write operation when there is primary db instance is there:
    Node

20: Primary and standby database:

21: How to handle high reads:
    1. enable elastic cache
    2. Vertical autoscaling
    3. readreplica

22. Monitor Read and write in RDS:
    CW

23. My queries seem to slow: 
    Instance type upgradation, optimize query with developer

24. Option group:

25. Primary key: Unique column name across all the tables in the database.

26. RPO: Recorvery Point Objective (Time gap between backup taken time and failed db) & RTO (Faileddb and Full Recorvery db time) 

27. convert Single AZ to Multi AZ using cli
    aws rds modify-db-instance \
--db-instance-identifier rds-mysql-instance \
--multi-az --apply-immediately

28. how to convert single az to multi az
    create a read replica and convert read replica into multi az and promote read replica

29. Fail over process: When primary db is down or un responsive, then the standby db can be failovered and you can resume the process with the standyby db promoted. Works with certain conditions only
    Some patch is happening in primary db os, db unhealthy, or busy, unresponsive,requested by customer.
    Failover can be quick.

30. CloudWatch gathers metrics about CPU utilization from the hypervisor for a DB instance, and Enhanced Monitoring gathers its metrics from an agent on the instance

31. performance insights - monitoring based on db performance, hosts, users, and sql.

32. Setup IAM authentication - create a ec2 instance role with permission to db, and create a user with the iam user and generate certificate credentails in specific dir. Then user can request a temprory token and can connect with the help of that token. 

33.what happens if read replica is tried to write: "The MySQL server is running with the --read-only option so it cannot execute this statement"

34. aurora failover advantages - if you have multiple read replica and would like to failover when primary db is unresponsive, u can set the tier to 0,1,2,3,4,5 to make failover.

35. RDS Proxy - In order not to overload db directly we can use rds proxy.
    It acts as a middle man between mysql client and db. But the limitation is proxy can be accessible within the vpc but not outside though the db itself is outside.
    Advantage -  is it can able to filter the db offloading by limiting the request in.

36. Difference between RDS & Aurora:
    RDS: has 5 readreplica. Failover is manual untill u give multi az. Delay in failover time.
    aurora: has 15 read per az. automatic failover. port no 5432. Quick failover comparing rds.

37. 